=head1 Need to allocate time for promotion
=timestamp 1687845289
=tags blogs



I can't expect that people will hire me or even just join my community out of the blue. I'll need to invest in promoting the promoting my
services and my projects.



<h2>Yesterday</h2>

I managed to make progress with the Rust slides and recorded 3 videos. It was not easy to decide what comes next.

I started to feel that my time is too fragmented. I turn off Discord to be able to focus on things without the notifications,
but I still turned it on too many times during the day and I was still trying to respond to some of the items.
This of course takes me a lot of time and uses a lot of energy as everything is in Hebrew. However I guess I should see it also
as an investment I should have done years ago to improve my Hebrew reading and writing skills.

There were also a number of people who wanted to either talk to me about my projects or hear a bit more about my project, but we could not
find the right time. Either I was online or the other people. I think I will need to allocate a special time-slot and tell people I'll be online that time.

I made some progress on the <a href="https://osdc.code-maven.com/">OSDC site content</a> and on our <a href="https://osdc.zulipchat.com/">Zulip</a> instance.
We even got listed among the <a href="https://zulip.com/communities/">Zulip communities</a>.
There are now 11 members. There is a <a href="https://osdc.zulipchat.com/stats">stats</a> page to see some interesting numbers.
Well, they are more interesting on the <a href="https://chat.zulip.org/stats">Zulip of Zulip</a> because it has been around for 6 years.

I figured I am spending most of my time on developing content and maybe not enough promoting my services. Is it even clear what are my services?

I posted <a href="https://dev.to/szabgab/only-internally-vetted-and-approved-open-source-libraries-can-be-used-4m1i">Only internally vetted and approved Open Source libraries can be used</a>
and got some interesting replies.

<h2>Today</h2>

No special plans for today. I will work on Rust, the OSDC web site, publishing another article about open source.

<h2>Plans</h2>

There are some longer plans that I might list here.

A Meetup introducing Zulip that will give me the opportunity to show the platform, learn more about the platform and maybe include a few more people in our instance.
For this I need to have a little bit more experience with the platform and work out some process on how I am using it.

<ul>
<li>Checking the recent messages I've participated in to see if there were any new comments on them.</li>
<li>Checking streams that interest me.</li>
</ul>

Try how well Zulip works with Hebrew text written right-to-left and open issues if necessary.

Create my own <a href="https://chat.zulip.org/#narrow/stream/138-user-community/topic/how.20do.20you.20welcome.20new.20users.3F">welcome-bot</a>.
Though actually I like that I send a DM myself to each new user.


